## Comorbidities, signs and symptoms, laboratory findings, imaging features, treatment strategies, and outcomes in adult and pediatric patients with COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis


**Authors of this study**: Catherine R. Jutzeler, Lucie Bourgignon, Caroline V. Weis, Bobo Tong, Cyrus Wong, Bastian Rieck, Hans Pargger, Sarah Tschudin-Sutter, Adrian Egli, Karsten Borgwardt, Matthias Walter

**Link to paper**: [Jutzeler et al., 2020](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1477893920303215?via%3Dihub)

**Abstract**
Since December 2019, a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has triggered a world-wide pandemic with an enormous medical and societal-economic toll. Thus, the aim of this study was to aggregate information on comorbidities, signs and symptoms, laboratory parameter, imaging features, and treatments associate with different outcomes (e.g., death, survival, severity of disease) in patients that were infected with the recently emerged SARS-CoV-2 virus.EMBASE, PubMed/Medline, Scopus, and Web of Science were searched for studies published in any language between December 1st, 2019 and March 28th, 2020. Original studies were included if the exposure of interest was an infection with SARS-CoV-2 or confirmed COVID-19. The primary outcome was the risk ratio of comorbidities, clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory findings, imaging features, treatments, outcomes, and complications associated with COVID-19 morbidity and mortality. We performed random-effects pairwise meta-analyses for proportions and relative risks, I2, T2, and Cochrane Q, sensitivity analyses, and assessed publication bias. 148 studies met the inclusion criteria for the systematic review and meta-analysis with 12'149 patients (5'739 female) and a median age of 47.0 [35.0-64.6] years. 617 patients died from COVID-19 and its complication. 297 patients were reported as asymptomatic. Older age (SMD: 1.25 [0.78-1.72]; p < 0.001), being male (RR = 1.32 [1.13-1.54], p = 0.005) and pre-existing comorbidity (RR = 1.69 [1.48-1.94]; p < 0.001) were identified as risk factors of in-hospital mortality. The heterogeneity between studies varied substantially (I2; range: 1.5-98.2%). Publication bias was only found in eight studies (Egger's test: p < 0.05). Our meta-analyses revealed important risk factors that are associated with severity and mortality of COVID-19.

**Funding**: This study was funded by a research grant from the Swiss National Science Foundation (Ambizione Grant #PZ00P3_186101, Jutzeler).

**Who should we contact?**: [Dr. Catherine Jutzeler](mailto:catherine.jutzeler@bsse.ethz.ch?subject=GitHub:%20Jutzeler%20et%20al,%20Travel%20Med%20Infect%20Dis.%202020)
